---
layout: post
title: Perl Weekly Challenge 90.
excerpt: Analyze DNA sequence and Ethiopian Multiplication
tags:
   - pwc
   - perl
---

My solutions to the [The Perl Weekly Challenge - 090](https://perlweeklychallenge.org/blog/perl-weekly-challenge-090/#TASK1), [task 1](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-090/wlmb/perl/ch-1.pl) and
[task 2](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-090/wlmb/perl/ch-2.pl).


# Task 1: DNA Sequence

*DNA is a long, chainlike molecule which has two strands twisted into a*
*double helix. The two strands are made up of simpler molecules called*
*nucleotides. Each nucleotide is composed of one of the four*
*nitrogen-containing nucleobases cytosine (C), guanine (G), adenine (A)*
*and thymine (T).*

*You are given DNA sequence, GTAAACCCCTTTTCATTTAGACAGATCGACTCCTTATCCATTCTCAGAGATGTGTTGCTGGTCGCCG.*

*Write a script to print nucleiobase count in the given DNA*
*sequence. Also print the complementary sequence where Thymine (T) on*
*one strand is always facing an adenine (A) and vice versa; guanine (G)*
*is always facing a cytosine (C) and vice versa.*

*To get the complementary sequence use the following mapping:*

*T => A*
*A => T*
*G => C*
*C => G*

To solve this *task* I split the DNA sequence into its nucleotides and use
a couple of hashes to keep a count of each base and to map them to
their complement.

The code starts with the usual headers and some useful packages.


    # For sequences of DNA get nucleotide counts and its complement
    # See https:/wlmb.github.io/2020/12/07/PWC90/#task-1-dna-sequence
    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use v5.10;

    use List::Util qw(sum0);

Receive sequences as strings in `@ARGV`.

    say('Usage: ch-1.pl sequence1 sequence2 ...'), exit 1 unless @ARGV;

Initialize the map from nucleotides to their complement.

    my %complement_of; # Map dna nucleotide to its complement
    @complement_of{my @nucleotides=qw(T A G C)}=qw(A T C G); #initialize

For each sequence, test that it only contains valid bases, complement
it, count its nucleotides and report the results.

    foreach my $sequence(map {uc} @ARGV){
        say("Wrong sequence $sequence"), next unless $sequence=~/^[@nucleotides]*$/;
        say "  Sequence: $sequence";
        say "Complement: ", complement($sequence);
        my %count_for=get_count_for($sequence);
        say "Nucleotide counts:";
        say "\t$_-$complement_of{$_} $count_for{$_}" for @nucleotides;
        say "\tTotal\t", sum0 values %count_for;
    }

Complement a sequence by taking it apart, complementing each
nucleatide using the `$complement_of` map and joining them back.

    sub complement { # converts string with a DNA sequence to its complement
        my $sequence=shift;
        return join "", map {$complement_of{$_}} split //, $sequence;
    }

Accumulate counts for each nucleotide using a hash.

    sub get_count_for { # count nucleotides of a dna sequence
        my $sequence=shift;
        my @nucleotides=split //,$sequence;
        my %count_for; # counts of nucleotides
        @count_for{qw(T A G C)}=((0) x 4); #initialize with 0's
        map {$count_for{$_}++} split //, $sequence;
        return %count_for;
    }

Run it providing both valid and invalid inputs.

    ./ch-1.pl hithere \
       GTAAACCCCTTTTCATTTAGACAGATCGACTCCTTATCCATTCTCAGAGATGTGTTGCTGGTCGCCG \
       TGCTGGTCGCCG

Results:

    Wrong sequence HITHERE
      Sequence: GTAAACCCCTTTTCATTTAGACAGATCGACTCCTTATCCATTCTCAGAGATGTGTTGCTGGTCGCCG
    Complement: CATTTGGGGAAAAGTAAATCTGTCTAGCTGAGGAATAGGTAAGAGTCTCTACACAACGACCAGCGGC
    Nucleotide counts:
    	T-A 22
    	A-T 14
    	G-C 13
    	C-G 18
    	Total	67
      Sequence: TGCTGGTCGCCG
    Complement: ACGACCAGCGGC
    Nucleotide counts:
    	T-A 3
    	A-T 0
    	G-C 5
    	C-G 4
    	Total	12


# Task 2: Ethiopian Multiplication

*You are given two positive numbers $A and $B.*

*Write a script to demonstrate Ethiopian Multiplication using the given numbers.*

It turns out that ethiopian multiplication is just ordinary
multiplication in the binary system, i.e., we multiply the
multiplicand by each digit of the multiplier and shift the result
left the number of places corresponding to that digit.
Thus, to multiply 6x5 in binary

             1  1  0
    x        1  0  1
    -----------------
    =        1  1  0
    +     0  0  0
    +  1  1  0
    -----------------
    =  1  1  1  1  0
    -----------------

which reads as 110x101=1x110+0x1100+1x11000=11110
which in base 10 would read as 6x5=1x6+0x12+1x24=30. To get the
succesive digits of the multiplier we can divide by two (shifth right)
and test the least significant digit, i.e., test if the result is odd
or even.

As computers use binary internally, the simplest program to perform Ethiopian
multiplication would be something as

    perl -E 'say $ARGV[0]*$ARGV[1]' 5 6

Result:

    30

Nevertheless, to display the process, I did the following program.
Start with the usual headers and packages. Use integer arithmetic to
avoid fractional quotients.

    # Multiply two numbers using the Ethiopian Multiplication
    # See https:/wlmb.github.io/2020/12/07/PWC90/#task-2-ethiopian-multiplication
    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use v5.10;
    use integer;
    use List::Util qw(all);

Receive the two numbers to be multiplied in `@ARGV`. Test they are
positive. If fractional they will automatically be converted to
integer upon processing.

    # receive the two numbers in @ARGV
    die 'Usage: ./ch2.pl number1 number2' unless @ARGV==2;
    my ($x, $y)=@ARGV;
    die 'Expected two non-negative integers'   # check signs
        unless all {int($_)==$_ && $_>=0} ($x, $y);

Perform initializations.

    my $expected_result=$x*$y;
    my $result=0;
    my $result_string="$x x $y = ";
    my $operator="";

Perform the actual multiplication. Divide `$x` by 2 (shift right) and
multiply `$y` by two (shift left) succesively. Test for `$x` for
oddness (test first bit) to deciding if $y should be added. Display
the partial results, flagging the lines where `$x` is odd and `$y` should
be added, and construct a string with the final result.

    while($x){
        if($x&1){  # $x is odd, add $y to result
    	print "->"; # flag line
    	$result += $y;
    	$result_string .= "$operator 1 x $y";
        } else {   # $x is even, don't add y
    	$result_string.="$operator 0 x $y";
        }
        say "\tx=$x\ty=$y";
        $operator=" + ";
        $x>>=1;  # Divde $x by 2
        $y<<=1;  # Multiply $y by 2
    }
    say " $result_string = $result (Expected: $expected_result)";

Sample run:

    ./ch-2.pl 11 23

Results:

    ->	x=11	y=23
    ->	x=5	y=46
    	x=2	y=92
    ->	x=1	y=184
     11 x 23 =  1 x 23 +  1 x 46 +  0 x 92 +  1 x 184 = 253 (Expected: 253)
