---
layout: post
title: Perl Weekly Challenge 107.
comments: true
excerpt: Self-descriptive Numbers and List Methods
tags:
   - pwc
   - perl
---

My solutions ([task 1a](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-107/wlmb/perl/ch-1a.pl), [task 1](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-107/wlmb/perl/ch-1.pl) and [task 2](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-107/wlmb/perl/ch-2.pl)) to the  [The Weekly Challenge - 107](https://perlweeklychallenge.org/blog/perl-weekly-challenge-107).


# Task 1: Self-descriptive Numbers

> Submitted by: Mohammad S Anwar
>
> Write a script to display the first three self-descriptive numbers. As
> per wikipedia, the definition of Self-descriptive Number is
>
> In mathematics, a self-descriptive number is an integer m that in a
> given base b is b digits long in which each digit d at position n (the
> most significant digit being at position 0 and the least significant
> at position b−1) counts how many instances of digit n are in m.
>
> For example:
>
>     1210 is a four-digit self-descriptive number:
>
>        - position 0 has value 1 i.e. there is only one 0 in the number
>        - position 1 has value 2 i.e. there are two 1 in the number
>        - position 2 has value 1 i.e. there is only one 2 in the number
>        - position 3 has value 0 i.e. there is no 3 in the number
>
> Output:
>
>     1210, 2020, 21200

My first attempt is just brute force. Try all numbers in sequence and
test for self-describing.

    # Perl weekly challenge 107
    # Task 1: Self-descriptive Numbers
    # Brute force solution.
    #
    # See https://wlmb.github.io/2021/04/05/PWC107/#task-1-self-descriptive-numbers
    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use v5.12;
    use List::Util qw(all);
    die 'Use: ./ch1a.pl howmany' unless @ARGV;
    my $howmany=shift @ARGV;
    for my $n(0..10**10-1){ # number of digits <=10
        if(check($n)){
    	say $n;
    	--$howmany;
    	last if $howmany<=0;
        }
    }

    sub check {
        my $number=shift;
        my @digits=split '',$number;
        my @need=(0)x@digits;
        my @have=(0)x@digits;
        map {$need[$_]=$digits[$_]; $have[$digits[$_]]++} 0..@digits-1;
        return all {$need[$_]==$have[$_]} 0..@digits-1;
    }

Examples:

    ./ch-1a.pl 4

Results:

    1210
    2020
    21200
    3211000

This becomes *very* slow after the first few results.

In my second attempt I construct the numbers a digit at a time and use
a simple property of self descriptive numbers: the sum of its digits
is its base. I use letters to allow bases up to 26. To allow very
large numbers, I represent them as an array of its digits.

    # Perl weekly challenge 107
    # Task 1: Self-descriptive Numbers
    # Use some properties to accelerate their generation
    # Use letter to go beyond base 10
    #
    # See https://wlmb.github.io/2021/04/05/PWC107/#task-1-self-descriptive-numbers
    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use v5.12;
    use List::Util qw(all);

    die 'Use: ./ch1.pl howmany' unless @ARGV;
    my $howmany=shift @ARGV;
    exit unless $howmany > 0;
    my @results;
    my $largest_base=36; #allows ten decimal digits and 26 letters
    my @letter_from_digit=(0..9,'a'..'z');
    my $base=2;

     RESULT:
        while($howmany>@results){
    	++$base;
    	last RESULT if $base>$largest_base;
    	for my $firstdigit(1..$base-1){
    	    try([$firstdigit],0,$base, $firstdigit);
    	    last RESULT if @results==$howmany;
    	}
    }
    my $n=1;
    foreach(@results){
        say sprintf("%2d- Base %2d:  %s", $n++, scalar @$_,
    		join('', map {$letter_from_digit[$_]} @$_));
    }
    sub try {
        my ($current,$position,$base, $sum)=@_;
        if($position==$base-1){
    	push @results, $current if check($current);
    	return;
        }
        for my $digit(0..$base-$sum){
    	try([(@$current,$digit)], $position+1, $base, $sum+$digit);
        }
    }

    sub check {
        my $number=shift;
        my @digits=@$number;
        my @need=(0)x@digits;
        my @have=(0)x@digits;
        map {$need[$_]=$digits[$_]; $have[$digits[$_]]++} 0..@digits-1;
        return all {$need[$_]==$have[$_]} 0..@digits-1;
    }

    ./ch-1.pl 10

Results:

     1- Base  4:  1210
     2- Base  4:  2020
     3- Base  5:  21200
     4- Base  7:  3211000
     5- Base  8:  42101000
     6- Base  9:  521001000
     7- Base 10:  6210001000
     8- Base 11:  72100001000
     9- Base 12:  821000001000
    10- Base 13:  9210000001000

This version is much faster than the
previous one, but it still can't be used for very large bases. Though, it took
a few seconds up to base 13.


# Task 2: List Methods

> Submitted by: Mohammad S Anwar
>
> Write a script to list methods of a package/class.
>
> Example
>
>     package Calc;
>
>     use strict;
>     use warnings;
>
>     sub new { bless {}, shift; }
>     sub add { }
>     sub mul { }
>     sub div { }
>
>     1;
>
> Output:
>
>     BEGIN
>     mul
>     div
>     new
>     add

First I make me a package.


    package Calc;

    use strict;
    use warnings;

    sub new { bless {}, shift; }
    sub add { }
    sub mul { }
    sub div { }
    our $scalar;
    our @array;
    our %hash;

    1;

This is similar to the example, but with some class data besides the methods.

Then I feed the package to the following program, which loads it and
examines its symbol table, printing anything that seems like a subroutine.
I'm not too confident in my knowledge of symbol tables, so this is an
opportunity for learning.

    # Perl weekly challenge 107
    # Task 2: List Methods
    #
    # See https://wlmb.github.io/2021/04/05/PWC107/#task-2-list-methods
    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use v5.12;

    no strict "refs"; # don't be that strict
    die 'Use: ./ch-2.pl package [other package] [...]' unless @ARGV;
    foreach my $package(@ARGV){
        eval "require $package";
        die $@ if $@;
        say "Methods of $package";
        foreach my $key(sort keys %{"${package}::"}){
    	say "\t$key" if defined &{"${package}::$key"};
        }
    }

Examples:

    perl -Mlib=. ./ch-2.pl Calc

Results:

    Methods of Calc
    	add
    	div
    	mul
    	new

Notice that the `BEGIN` results from the example in the
task description is not
printed, as I guess it is not *methods* (it seems not to be recognized
as code). I added a few package variables to
the example. They are not listed in the results either. I had to run
this example with the -Mlib switch so the `Calc` package could be found.

Now I test the program on one of my real installed packages:

    ./ch-2.pl Photonic::LE::NR2::EpsL

Results:

    Methods of Photonic::LE::NR2::EpsL
    	BUILD
    	DESTROY
    	_converged
    	_epsA
    	_epsB
    	_epsL
    	_nh
    	_nhActual
    	_u
    	converged
    	epsA
    	epsB
    	epsL
    	evaluate
    	meta
    	new
    	nh
    	nhActual
    	nr
    	smallE
    	u

It did find the package and found its public and private methods. I
was not sure what to expect, as that package is based in `Moose`, but
the results seem reasonable.
