---
layout: post
title: Perl Weekly Challenge 94.
excerpt: Group anagrams and binary tree to linked list.
tags:
   - pwc
   - perl
---

My solutions ([task 1,](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-094/wlmb/perl/ch-1.pl) [task 2](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-094/wlmb/perl/ch-2.pl) and an alternative solution to [task 2](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-094/wlmb/perl/ch-2a.pl)) to the [The Weekly Challenge - 094](https://perlweeklychallenge.org/blog/perl-weekly-challenge-094).


# Task 1: Group Anagrams

*Submitted by: Mohammad S Anwar*

*You are given an array of strings @S.*

*Write a script to group Anagrams together in any random order.*

*An Anagram is a word or phrase formed by rearranging the letters of a*
*different word or phrase, typically using all the original letters*
*exactly once.*

Example 1:


    Input: ("opt", "bat", "saw", "tab", "pot", "top", "was")
    Output: [ ("bat", "tab"),
              ("saw", "was"),
              ("top", "pot", "opt") ]

    Example 2:
        Input: ("x")
        Output: [ ("x") ]

This task has a very compact solution.
Two words are anagrams if and only if they are mapped to identical
canonical representations. We choose as the canonical representation
of the words a word made with the same letters ordered alphabetically.
I read the arguments from the command line, push them into arrays
indexed by the corresponding canonical strings and then print these
arrays one per line. For simplicity I disregarded the format:
quotation marks, commas and square brackets.

    # Perl weekly challenge 094
    # Task 1: Group anagrams.
    # From a list of strings recognize anagrams and group them.
    # See https:/wlmb.github.io/2020/01/04/PWC94/#task-1-group-anagrams
    use v5.12;
    my %anagrams;
    push @{$anagrams{join '', sort split '', $_}}, $_ foreach @ARGV;
    say join(" ", @{$anagrams{$_}})foreach keys %anagrams;

Example 1:

    ./ch-1.pl opt bat saw tab pot top was

Results:

    opt pot top
    saw was
    bat tab

Example 2:

    ./ch-1.pl x

Results:

    x

Actually, the code is short enough that it is appropriate for a one-liner.

Example 1':

    perl -E 'push @{$anagrams{join "", sort split "", $_}}, $_ foreach @ARGV; say join(" ", @{$anagrams{$_}})foreach keys %anagrams;' opt bat saw tab pot top was

Results:

    saw was
    opt pot top
    bat tab

Example 2':

    perl -E 'push @{$anagrams{join "", sort split "", $_}}, $_ foreach @ARGV; say join(" ", @{$anagrams{$_}})foreach keys %anagrams;' x

Results:

    x


# Task 2: Binary Tree to Linked List

*Submitted by: Mohammad S Anwar*

*You are given a binary tree.*

*Write a script to represent the given binary tree as an object and*
*flatten it to a linked list object. Finally print the linked list*
*object.*

Example:

    Input:

        1
       / \
      2   3
     / \
    4   5
       / \
      6   7

    Output:

        1 -> 2 -> 4 -> 5 -> 6 -> 7 -> 3

If I omit the 'object' part of the task, it also has a very short
solution, using the fact that perl flattens lists automatically. Thus,
I may represent each node as a three element list, where the first
element is the value and the second and third are its left and right
descendants, empty for the leaves. Thus, the tree above would be represented as
`(1,(2,(4,(),()),(5,(6,(),()),(7,(),()))),(3,(),()))`. The program
would simply evaluate this expression in perl.

Example

    perl -E 'say join "->", (1,(2,(4,(),()),(5,(6,(),()),(7,(),()))),(3,(),()))'

Results:

    1->2->4->5->6->7->3

A not so nice and simple program doing the same and obtaining its arguments as a string
from the command line follows.

    # Perl weekly challenge 094
    # Task 2: Binary tree to linked list.
    #
    # See https:/wlmb.github.io/2020/01/04/PWC94/#task-1-binary-tree-to-linked-list
    use v5.12;
    use Text::Balanced qw(extract_bracketed extract_multiple);

I use Moose to define the tree object, together with a `flatten` method.

    package Tree;
    use Moose;
    has value=>(is=>'ro', required=>1);
    has left=>(is=>'ro', required=>1);
    has right=>(is=>'ro', required=>1);

    sub flatten {
        my $self=shift;
        return () unless defined $self->value;
        return ($self->value, $self->left?$self->left->flatten:(), $self->right?$self->right->flatten:());
    }

Back to the main package, the program builds the tree, flattens it and
prints it, as detailed in the task description. The arguments are taken from the
command line as parenthesized strings.

    package main;
    foreach(@ARGV){
        # remove unnecesary commas
        tr/,//d;
        my $tree=build_tree($_);
        say("Empty tree"), next unless defined $tree;
        my @values=$tree->flatten;
        say join '->', @values;
    }

The trees are built from string of the form '(value, left, right)',
parsed with Text::Balanced.

    sub build_tree { #Build tree recursively from string representation
        my $string=shift @_;
        # strip parenthesis
        die "Wrong format of string $string" unless $string=~s/^\s*\((.*)\)\s*$/$1/;
        return undef if $string=~/^\s*$/; # empty tree
        my @parts=extract_multiple($string,[\&extract_bracketed]);
        die "Not a binary tree ", join " ",@parts unless @parts==3;
        my($value, $left, $right)=@parts;
        die "Value can contain only alphanumerics: $value" unless $value=~s/^\s*(\w+)\s*$/$1/;
        return Tree->new(value=>$value, left=> build_tree($left), right=>build_tree($right));
    }

Somewhat more complicated than the oneliner above.
Anyway, I test the given example:

    ./ch-2.pl '(1,(2,(4,(),()),(5,(6,(),()),(7,(),()))),(3,(),()))'

Results:

    1->2->4->5->6->7->3

Other examples (subtrees only on the right, only on the left, a
balanced binary tree, an empty tree):

    ./ch-2.pl '(1,(2,(3,(4,(),()),()),()),())'\
    	  '(1,(),(2,(),(3,(),(4,(),()))))'\
    	  '(1,(2,(4,(),()),(5,(),())),(3,(6,(),()),(7,(),())))'\
    	  '()'

Results:

    1->2->3->4
    1->2->3->4
    1->2->4->5->3->6->7
    Empty tree

The inputs as parenthesized lists don't look terribly nice and it is
easy to make errors. I guess they would look better if the input tree
is coded as a yaml file. To that end, I rewrite the program above using
the `YAML::Tiny` package to process the inputs.

    # Perl weekly challenge 094
    # Task 2: Binary tree to linked list.
    #
    # See https:/wlmb.github.io/2020/01/04/PWC94/#task-1-binary-tree-to-linked-list
    use v5.12;

    package Tree;
    use Moose;
    has value=>(is=>'ro', required=>1);
    has left=>(is=>'ro', required=>1);
    has right=>(is=>'ro', required=>1);

    sub flatten {
        my $self=shift;
        return () unless defined $self->value;
        return ($self->value,
    	    $self->left?$self->left->flatten:(),
    	    $self->right?$self->right->flatten:());
    }

The program receives paths to yaml files in `@ARGV`, opens them and
processes all its trees, one to each *document*.

    package main;
    use Data::Dumper;
    use YAML::Tiny;
    # @ARGV contains yaml filenames
    foreach(@ARGV){ # for each yaml file
        my $yaml=YAML::Tiny->read($_); # convert yaml document to perl structure
        foreach(@{$yaml}){ #for each document in the file
    	my $tree=build_tree($_);
    	say("Empty tree"), next unless defined $tree;
    	my @values=$tree->flatten;
    	say join '->', @values;
        }
    }

The trees are built from yaml objects: scalars for leaves,
value:array pairs to represent a node with an array of of two
subtrees, null is for for empty subtrees.

    sub build_tree { #Build tree recursively
        my $tree=shift;
        return undef unless defined $tree; #Empty tree
        return Tree->new(value=>$tree, left=>undef, right=>undef) unless ref $tree; # a leaf
        # Die with an unsophisticated dump of the current subtree in case of errors
        die "Not a binary tree\n". Dumper($tree) unless ref $tree eq "HASH";
        my @keys=keys %{$tree};
        die "Not a binary tree\n". Dumper($tree) unless @keys==1;
        my $node=$keys[0];
        my $subtrees=$tree->{$node};
        die "Not a binary tree\n". Dumper($tree) unless ref $subtrees eq "ARRAY" and @$subtrees==2;
        my ($left,$right)=@$subtrees;
        return Tree->new(value=>$node, left=> build_tree($left), right=>build_tree($right));
    }

For testing purposes, I make a yaml file and run the program on
all the examples above.

    cat <<EOF >rem.yml
    ---
    # original example
    1:
     - 2:
       - 4
       - 5:
         - 6
         - 7
     - 3
    ---
    # only left descendants
    1:
      - 2:
         - 3:
    	- 4
    	- ~
         - ~
      - ~
    ---
    # only right descendants
    1:
     - ~
     - 2:
        - ~
        - 3:
           - ~
           - 4
    ---
    # balanced tree
    1:
     - 2:
        - 4
        - 5
     - 3:
        - 6
        - 7
    ---
    # empty
    EOF
    ./ch-2a.pl rem.yml

Results:

    1->2->4->5->6->7->3
    1->2->3->4
    1->2->3->4
    1->2->4->5->3->6->7
    Empty tree
