---
layout: post
title: Perl Weekly Challenge 116.
comments: true
excerpt: Number sequence and sum of squares

tags:
   - pwc
   - perl
---

My solutions ([task 1](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-116/wlmb/perl/ch-1.pl), and [task 2](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-116/wlmb/perl/ch-2.pl)) to the  [The Weekly Challenge - 116](https://perlweeklychallenge.org/blog/perl-weekly-challenge-116).


# Task 1: Number Sequence

    Submitted by: Mohammad S Anwar
    You are given a number $N >= 10.

    Write a script to split the given number such that the
    difference between two consecutive numbers is always 1
    and it shouldn’t have leading 0.

    Print the given number if it impossible to split the number.

    Example
    Input: $N = 1234
    Output: 1,2,3,4

    Input: $N = 91011
    Output: 9,10,11

    Input: $N = 10203
    Output: 10203 as it is impossible to split satisfying the
    conditions.

I guess it is faster to construct the sequence from a given starting
number than producing all the possible sets of digits and testing them
for a sequence of numbers.

Given a number *N*  with digits *abc&#x2026;xyz* I can make a number with the
first  digits, say *&alpha;=abc* and check if the remaining digits "def&#x2026;"
contain the next number *&alpha;+1*. If I succed with the digits "pqr", I remove them so that now
I have a consecutive sequence, say *(&alpha;,&alpha;+1)* and two
remaining numbers *def&#x2026;mno* and *stu&#x2026;xyz*. Now I can search for
*&alpha;+2* in the remaining numbers until the
search space is depleted or until I fail. In the latter case, I
look for *&alpha;-1*, *&alpha;-2*. If I fail, I can backtrack, try new
candidate numbers, start removing the largest numbers from the
sequence, try changing the length of the initial sequence or finally,
give up. I assume that the sequence must have at least two numbers, as
*it is always possible* to find a degenerate consecutive sequence of
only one element (the initial number). I use iterators. One  splits a
given number in all possible ways into a three pieces: the desired
target, the digits before the target and the digits that follow the
target. The other does something similar but for all the current
number fragments. I guess it is faster to try first solutions with big
numbers.

    # Perl weekly challenge 116
    # Task 1: Number sequence
    #
    # See https://wlmb.github.io/2021/06/11/PWC116/#task-1-number-sequence
    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use POSIX qw(ceil);
    use v5.12;

    my @digits=@ARGV;
    die "Usage ./ch-1.pl digits1 [digits2...]" unless @digits;
    foreach(@digits){
        warn("Expected >=10"), next unless $_>=10;
        my @sequence=find_sequence($_);
        say "Input: $_";
        say "Output: ", @sequence? join ",", @sequence:$_;
    }
    sub find_sequence {
        my $digits=shift;
        my $max=ceil length($digits)/2;
        foreach(reverse 1..$max){ #from large to small starting numbers
    	my @result=find_sequence_initial_size($digits, $_);
    	return @result if @result;
        }
        return;
    }
    sub find_sequence_initial_size {
        my ($digits, $size)=@_;
        my $first=substr $digits,0,$size,"";
        #Search upwards first and downwards next
        my $result=increasing([$first],[$digits]);
        return @$result if $result;
        return;
    }

    sub increasing {
        my ($current, $rest)=@_;  # current sequence and remaining fragments
        my $next=$current->[-1]+1; # next number in sequence
        my @next=(@$current, $next); # next sequence if succesful
        my $iterator=try_many($next, @$rest); #find $next number in @rest
        while(my $remaining=$iterator->()){ # match?
             my @remaining=@$remaining;
             return [@next] if @remaining==0; #exhausted digits?
    	 my $attempt=increasing([@next], [@$remaining]); # recurse
    	 return $attempt if defined $attempt; #finished?
    	 $attempt=decreasing([@next],[@$remaining]); #grow in opposite dir.
    	 return $attempt if defined $attempt; #success?
        }
        return decreasing($current, $rest); # backtrack and try opposite dir.
    }

    sub decreasing {
        my ($current, $rest)=@_;  # current sequence and remaining fragments
        my $previous=$current->[0]-1; # previous number in sequence
        return if $previous < 0; # failure. No negatives.
        my @next=($previous, @$current); #next sequence if succesful
        my $iterator=try_many($previous, @$rest);
        while(my $remaining=$iterator->()){ #match?
             my @remaining=@$remaining;
             return [@next] if @remaining==0; #finished
    	 my $attempt=decreasing([@next], [@remaining]); #recurse
    	 return $attempt if defined $attempt; #success
        }
        return; #failure
    }

    sub try_many { # returns iterator to search $target within @numbers in all possible ways
        my ($target, @numbers)=@_;
        die "Expected one or more numbers" unless @numbers>=1;
        my $current=0;
        my $iterate=try_one($target, $numbers[$current]);
        sub {
    	while($current<@numbers){
    	    my @next=$iterate->();
    	    #return array of remaining fragments, filtering out empty strings
    	    return [grep {$_ ne ""} (@numbers[0..$current-1],@next, @numbers[$current+1..@numbers-1])] if @next;
    	    ++$current;
    	    $iterate=try_one($target, $numbers[$current]) if $current < @numbers;
    	}
    	return;
        }
    }

    sub try_one {
        my ($target, $digits)=@_; # iterator to split target from $digits in all possible ways
        my $length=length $target;
        die "Expect positive length" unless $length > 0;
        my $index=-1; #index of $target in $digits
        sub {
    	$index=index $digits, $target, $index+1;
    	return unless $index >=0;
    	return (substr($digits,0,$index), substr($digits, $index+$length));
        }
    }

Examples:

    ./ch-1.pl 1234 91011 10203

Results:

    Input: 1234
    Output: 1,2,3,4
    Input: 91011
    Output: 9,10,11
    Input: 10203
    Output: 10203

I realize that I might have misread the statement of the problem, so that my
program succeeds even if succesive fragments are not
contiguous in the input. For example:

    ./ch-1.pl 4321 1243 9991000 791113151412108

Results:

    Input: 4321
    Output: 1,2,3,4
    Input: 1243
    Output: 1,2,3,4
    Input: 9991000
    Output: 999,1000
    Input: 791113151412108
    Output: 7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15

This made the problem unnecessarily difficult, but more interesting.


# Task 2: Sum of Squares

    Submitted by: Mohammad Meraj Zia
    You are given a number $N >= 10.

    Write a script to find out if the given number $N is such that sum of
    squares of all digits is a perfect square. Print 1 if it is
    otherwise 0.

    Example
    Input: $N = 34
    Ouput: 1 as 3^2 + 4^2 => 9 + 16 => 25 => 5^2

    Input: $N = 50
    Output: 1 as 5^2 + 0^2 => 25 + 0 => 25 => 5^2

    Input: $N = 52
    Output: 0 as 5^2 + 2^2 => 25 + 4 => 29

Split, square, add, root=>integer=success. It's a one-liner:

    perl -MList::Util=sum0 -MPOSIX=round -E 'map {$x=sqrt(sum0 map {$_**2} split "",$_); say "Input: $_\nOutput: ", $x==round($x)?1:0;} @ARGV' 34 50 52

Results:

    Input: 34
    Output: 1
    Input: 50
    Output: 1
    Input: 52
    Output: 0

The longer version:

    # Perl weekly challenge 116
    # Task 2: Sum of squares
    #
    # See https://wlmb.github.io/2021/06/11/PWC116/#task-2-sum-of-squares
    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use List::Util qw(sum0);
    use POSIX qw(round);
    use v5.12;

    foreach(@ARGV){
        my $x=sqrt(sum0 map {$_**2} split '',$_);
        say "Input: $_\nOutput: ", $x==round($x)?1:0;
    }

Examples:

    ./ch-2.pl 34 50 52

Results:

    Input: 34
    Output: 1
    Input: 50
    Output: 1
    Input: 52
    Output: 0
