---
layout: post
title: Perl Weekly Challenge 96.
comments: true
excerpt: Reverse words and edit distance
tags:
   - pwc
   - perl
---

My solutions ([task 1](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-096/wlmb/perl/ch-1.pl) and [task 2](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-096/wlmb/perl/ch-2.pl)) to the [The Weekly Challenge - 096](https://perlweeklychallenge.org/blog/perl-weekly-challenge-096).


# Task 1: Reverse Words

*Submitted by: Mohammad S Anwar*
*You are given a string $S.*

*Write a script to reverse the order of words in the given string. The*
*string may contain leading/trailing spaces. The string may have more*
*than one space between words in the string. Print the result without*
*leading/trailing spaces and there should be only one space between*
*words.*
Example 1:

    Input: $S = "The Weekly Challenge"
    Output: "Challenge Weekly The"
    Example 2:
    Input: $S = "    Perl and   Raku are  part of the same family  "
    Output: "family same the of part are Raku and Perl"

This seems a very simple task using the Perl's `reverse` function. Then, the task
may be performed in a oneliner.

    perl -E 'say "\"", join(" ", reverse split " ", $_),"\"" foreach(@ARGV)' \
    "The Weekly Challenge" \
    "    Perl and   Raku are  part of the same family  "

Results:

    "Challenge Weekly The"
    "family same the of part are Raku and Perl"

Here I used that leading spaces are removed when splitting on a whitespace
character. Nevertheless, I guess not
only spaces, but all punctuation (non-words) ought to be removed. Thus
I guess it is better to split on `/\W+/`.

    perl -E 'say "\"", join(" ", reverse split /\W+/, $_),"\"" foreach(@ARGV)' \
    "The Weekly Challenge" \
    "    Perl and   Raku are  part of the same family  "

Results:

    "Challenge Weekly The"
    "family same the of part are Raku and Perl "

Unfortunately, splitting this way produces a null first element when
the string starts with whitespace. That is the reason the last result
above ended in a space. Thus, I filter out null elements.

    perl -E 'say "\"", join(" ", grep $_, reverse split /\W+/, $_),"\"" foreach(@ARGV)' \
    "The Weekly Challenge" \
    "    Perl and   Raku are  part of the same family  "

Results:

    "Challenge Weekly The"
    "family same the of part are Raku and Perl"

Thus the complete program would be

    # Perl weekly challenge 096
    # Task 1: Reverse words
    # Print words in reverse order separated by one space
    # Remove all non-word characters
    # See https://wlmb.github.io/2021/01/18/PWC096/#task-1-reverse-words

    use warnings;
    use strict;
    use v5.10;

    say "\"", join(" ", grep $_, reverse split /\W+/, $_),"\"" foreach(@ARGV);

I try it out with a few examples:

    ./ch-1.pl \
             "The Weekly Challenge" \
             "    Perl and   Raku are  part of the same family  " \
    	 " What happens with punctuation signs? "

Results:

    "Challenge Weekly The"
    "family same the of part are Raku and Perl"
    "signs puntuation with happens What"


# Task 2: Edit Distance

*Submitted by: Mohammad S Anwar*
*You are given two strings $S1 and $S2.*

*Write a script to find out the minimum operations required to convert*
*$S1 into $S2. The operations can be insert, remove or replace a*
*character. Please check out [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edit_distance) page for more information.*

Example 1:

    Input: $S1 = "kitten"; $S2 = "sitting"
    Output: 3

    Operation 1: replace 'k' with 's'
    Operation 2: replace 'e' with 'i'
    Operation 3: insert 'g' at the end

Example 2:

    Input: $S1 = "sunday"; $S2 = "monday"
    Output: 2

    Operation 1: replace 's' with 'm'
    Operation 2: replace 'u' with 'o'

This is a very interesting and useful task. As such, there are several
modules in CPAN that perform it. For example, Text::Fuzzy returns the
distance and the edits encoded as a string with the letters k for
keep, d for delete, r for replace and i for insert. With it, the task
becomes a one liner.

    perl -MText::Fuzzy=distance_edits -E '($x,$y)=@ARGV; ($distance,$edits)=distance_edits($x,$y);' \
         -E 'say "Strings: $x $y\nOutput: $distance\nOperations: $edits"' kitten sitting
    perl -MText::Fuzzy=distance_edits -E '($x,$y)=@ARGV; ($distance,$edits)=distance_edits($x,$y);' \
         -E 'say "Strings: $x $y\nOutput: $distance\nOperations: $edits"' sunday monday

Results:

    Strings: kitten sitting
    Output: 3
    Operations: rkkkrki
    Strings: sunday monday
    Output: 2
    Operations: rrkkkk

Nevertheless, it is a nice exercise to implement the algorithm from
scratch. I start by reading the strings from `@ARGV`, splitting them
and counting their characters.

    # Perl weekly challenge 096
    # Task 2: Edit distance.
    # Calculate the number of editions required to edit a string and convert it into another.
    # See https://wlmb.github.io/2021/01/11/PWC096/#task-2-edit-distance

      use warnings;
      use strict;
      use v5.10;

      # Get the two strings to compare from @ARGV
      sub usage {
          say "Usage:\n\t./ch-2.pl from_string to_string\n\tComputes the cost to edit one string and produce the other";
          exit 1;
      }
      usage() unless @ARGV==2;
      my ($from, $to)=@ARGV;
      my @from=split '', $from;
      my @to=split '', $to;
      my $from_size=@from;
      my $to_size=@to;

I follow the [Wagner–Fischer algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wagner0.000000E+002                                                                               %93Fischer_algorithm) from the Wikipedia. To
that end I build a 2D array `$costs` each of whose entries `ij` correspond to the
optimal conversion of the leading `i` characters of one string to the
leading `j` characters of the other. I also build a 2D array
`$operations` with an indicator for the last optimal operation
performed to convert the corresponding substrings. I first initialize
these arrays with the $costs->[$i][0]~ to convert substrings of `$from` to a null
string, and the `$costs->[0][$j]` to convert a null string to
substrings of `$to`.

    my $costs;
    my $operations;
    # initialize the costs of $from->'' and ''->$to
    $costs->[$_][0]=$_ foreach(0..$from_size); #deletions
    $operations->[$_][0]='d' foreach(1..$from_size);
    $costs->[0][$_]=$_ foreach(0..$to_size); #insertions
    $operations->[0][$_]='i' foreach(1..$to_size);

Then I iteratively choose the optimal strategy for converting a
substring of `$from` to a substring of `$to`

    #Build costs matrix and choose best operations for each pair of substrings.
    foreach my $j(1..$to_size){
        foreach my $i(1..$from_size){
    	my $subcost=$from[$i-1] eq $to[$j-1]?0:1; # substitution cost
    	my($cost,$operation);
    	($cost,$operation)=($costs->[$i-1][$j-1]+$subcost,
    				  $subcost?"r":"k"); #for keep or substitute
    	($cost,$operation)=($costs->[$i][$j-1]+1, "i")
    	    if $costs->[$i][$j-1]+1 < $cost; #insertion
    	($cost,$operation)=($costs->[$i-1][$j]+1, "d")
    	    if $costs->[$i-1][$j]+1 < $cost; #deletion
    	$costs->[$i][$j]=$cost;
    	$operations->[$i][$j]=$operation;
        }
    }

The next step is to find the total cost and the sequence of operations
to perform by following the `$operations` array backwards using the
fact that replacements don't alter the size of strings, while
insertions and deletions change it by plus or minus 1.

    my $total_cost=$costs->[$from_size][$to_size];
    my @operations;
    my ($i, $j)=($from_size, $to_size);
    # Obtain optimum sequence of operations by examining the $operations array
    while($i>0 || $j>0){
        my $operation=$operations->[$i][$j];
        if($operation eq 'k'){
    	unshift @operations, "(Keep $from[$i-1])";
    	--$i;
    	--$j;
    	next;
        }
        if($operation eq 'r'){
    	unshift @operations, "Replace $from[$i-1] by $to[$j-1]";
    	--$i;
    	--$j;
    	next;
        }
        if($operation eq 'i'){
    	unshift @operations, "Insert $to[$j-1]";
    	--$j;
    	next;
        }
    	if($operation eq 'd'){
    	unshift @operations, "Delete $from[$i-1]";
    	--$i;
    	next;
        }
        die "Wrong operation!"; # Shouldn't happen
    }

Finally, I output the results.

    say "Inputs: \"$from\" -> \"$to\"\nOutput: $total_cost\n";
    say "Operation $_: $operations[$_-1]" foreach 1..@operations;
    say;

Example 1:

    ./ch-2.pl "kitten" "sitting"

Results:

    Inputs: "kitten" -> "sitting"
    Output: 3

    Operation 1: Replace k by s
    Operation 2: (Keep i)
    Operation 3: (Keep t)
    Operation 4: (Keep t)
    Operation 5: Replace e by i
    Operation 6: (Keep n)
    Operation 7: Insert g

Example 2:

    ./ch-2.pl "sunday" "monday"

Results:

    Inputs: "sunday" -> "monday"
    Output: 2

    Operation 1: Replace s by m
    Operation 2: Replace u by o
    Operation 3: (Keep n)
    Operation 4: (Keep d)
    Operation 5: (Keep a)
    Operation 6: (Keep y)

Other examples to check on null strings

    ./ch-2.pl "" ""
    ./ch-2.pl "abc" ""
    ./ch-2.pl "" "abc"

Results:

    Inputs: "" -> ""
    Output: 0


    Inputs: "abc" -> ""
    Output: 3

    Operation 1: Delete a
    Operation 2: Delete b
    Operation 3: Delete c

    Inputs: "" -> "abc"
    Output: 3

    Operation 1: Insert a
    Operation 2: Insert b
    Operation 3: Insert c
