---
layout: post
title: Perl Weekly Challenge 278.
comments: true
excerpt:  Sort String and  Reverse Word
tags:
   - pwc
   - perl
---

My solutions
([task 1](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-278/wlmb/perl/ch-1.pl)
and
[task 2](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-278/wlmb/perl/ch-2.pl)
)
to the  [The Weekly Challenge - 278](https://theweeklychallenge.org/blog/perl-weekly-challenge-278).


# Task 1: Sort String

    Submitted by: Mohammad Sajid Anwar
    You are given a shuffle string, $str.
    
    Write a script to return the sorted string.
    
    A string is shuffled by appending word position to each word.
    
    Example 1
    Input: $str = "and2 Raku3 cousins5 Perl1 are4"
    Output: "Perl and Raku are cousins"
    Example 2
    Input: $str = "guest6 Python1 most4 the3 popular5 is2 language7"
    Output: "Python is the most popular guest language"
    Example 3
    Input: $str = "Challenge3 The1 Weekly2"
    Output: "The Weekly Challenge"

I split the input into word-number strings, split each into word and
number parts using a regular expression, sort according to number
and output the result (Schwartzian transform). This yields a  one-liner.

Examples:

    perl -E '
    say"$_ -> ",join" ",map {$_->[0]}sort{$a->[1]<=>$b->[1]}map{/^(.+?)([0-9]+)$/;[$1,$2]} split " " for @ARGV;
    ' \
    "and2 Raku3 cousins5 Perl1 are4" \
    "guest6 Python1 most4 the3 popular5 is2 language7" \
    "Challenge3 The1 Weekly2"

Results:

    and2 Raku3 cousins5 Perl1 are4 -> Perl and Raku are cousins
    guest6 Python1 most4 the3 popular5 is2 language7 -> Python is the most popular guest language
    Challenge3 The1 Weekly2 -> The Weekly Challenge

I assumed there are no punctuation characters.

The full code makes a few checks, and sorts according to word if necessary.

     1  # Perl weekly challenge 278
     2  # Task 1:  Sort String
     3  #
     4  # See https://wlmb.github.io/2024/07/15/PWC278/#task-1-sort-string
     5  use v5.36;
     6  die <<~"FIN" unless @ARGV;
     7      Usage: $0 S1 S2...
     8      Sort the strings S1 S2...
     9      Each string is formed of space-separated word-number strings, i.e., a word concatenated to a
    10      non-negative number giving its position.
    11      FIN
    12  for(@ARGV){
    13      my @pair_strings=split " ", $_;
    14      my @pairs;
    15      for(@pair_strings){
    16  	/^(.+)?([0-9]+)$/ or die "Expected WD where W are word characters and D are digits: $_";
    17  	push @pairs, [$1, $2];
    18      }
    19      my @sorted=map {$_->[0]} sort {$a->[1] <=> $b->[1] || lc $a->[0] cmp lc $b->[0]} @pairs;
    20      say "$_ -> @sorted";
    21  }

Examples:

    ./ch-1.pl "and2 Raku3 cousins5 Perl1 are4" \
              "guest6 Python1 most4 the3 popular5 is2 language7" \
              "Challenge3 The1 Weekly2"

Results:

    and2 Raku3 cousins5 Perl1 are4 -> Perl and Raku are cousins
    guest6 Python1 most4 the3 popular5 is2 language7 -> Python is the most popular guest language
    Challenge3 The1 Weekly2 -> The Weekly Challenge


# Task 2: Reverse Word

    Submitted by: Mohammad Sajid Anwar
    You are given a word, $word and a character, $char.
    
    Write a script to replace the substring up to and including $char with its characters
    sorted alphabetically. If the $char doesn’t exist then DON'T do anything.
    
    Example 1
    Input: $str = "challenge", $char = "e"
    Ouput: "acehllnge"
    Example 2
    Input: $str = "programming", $char = "a"
    Ouput: "agoprrmming"
    Example 3
    Input: $str = "champion", $char = "b"
    Ouput: "champion"

I can split the word into the *before* and *after* parts, split the *before*
characters, sort them and join them. The code fits a one-liner.

Examples:

    perl -Mexperimental=for_list -E '
    for my($s, $c)(@ARGV){say "$s $c -> ", $s=~/^(.*?$c)(.*)$/?join("",sort{$a cmp $b}split"",$1).$2:$s}
    ' challenge e programming a champion b

Results:

    challenge e -> acehllnge
    programming a -> agoprrmming
    champion b -> champion

The full code

     1  # Perl weekly challenge 278
     2  # Task 2:  Reverse Word
     3  #
     4  # See https://wlmb.github.io/2024/07/15/PWC278/#task-2-reverse-word
     5  use v5.36;
     6  use experimental qw(for_list);
     7  die <<~"FIN" unless @ARGV and @ARGV%2==0;
     8      Usage: $0 S1 C1 S2 C2...
     9      to sort the characters of each string Si upto the character Ci
    10      FIN
    11  for my($string, $char)(@ARGV){
    12      warn "Expected a single character: $char" unless length $char == 1;
    13      my $out=$string =~ /^(.*?$char)(.*)$/
    14  	? join("", sort{$a cmp $b} split "", $1) . $2
    15          : $string;
    16      say "$string $char -> $out"
    17  }

Example:

    ./ch-2.pl challenge e programming a champion b

Results:

    challenge e -> acehllnge
    programming a -> agoprrmming
    champion b -> champion

/;

