---
layout: post
title: Perl Weekly Challenge 287.
comments: true
excerpt:  Strong Password and  Valid Number
tags:
   - pwc
   - perl
---

My solutions
([task 1](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-287/wlmb/perl/ch-1.pl)
and
[task 2](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-287/wlmb/perl/ch-2.pl)
)
to the  [The Weekly Challenge - 287](https://theweeklychallenge.org/blog/perl-weekly-challenge-287).


# Task 1: Strong Password

    Submitted by: Mohammad Sajid Anwar
    You are given a string, $str.
    
    Write a program to return the minimum number of steps required to make the given string
    very strong password. If it is already strong then return 0.
    
    Criteria:
    
    - It must have at least 6 characters.
    - It must contains at least one lowercase letter, at least one upper case letter
      and at least one digit.
    - It shouldn't contain 3 repeating characters in a row.
    Following can be considered as one step:
    
    - Insert one character
    - Delete one character
    - Replace one character with another
    Example 1
    Input: $str = "a"
    Output: 5
    Example 2
    Input: $str = "aB2"
    Output: 3
    Example 3
    Input: $str = "PaaSW0rd"
    Output: 0
    Example 4
    Input: $str = "Paaasw0rd"
    Output: 1
    Example 5
    Input: $str = "aaaaa"
    Output: 3

A seemingly simple solution would be:

-   If the password is missing characters of one class (lowercase,
    uppercase, digit) add one character.
-   If it has a consecutive sequence of 3 equal characters, replace
    the last one.
-   If the resulting string has `n<6` characters, and a character
    `6-n` times.

If there is a sequence of 3 equal characters and a character class is
missing I can replace one of the repeated characters by one of the
missing class and solve both problems with just one step. On the other
hand, if there is a sequence of 3 equal characters and the string is
too short, I could break the sequence by adding, instead of replacing,
a character, solving two problems. The added character could also be
of a missing class, if any, thereby solving three problems. However, for
example, for a string of 5 consecutive characters a replacement would
solve the problem of repeated characters, while adding a new character
still leave a problematic
string of 3 consecutive characters. For example, `…aaaaa…` could become
`…aabaa…` after a replacement, or `…aabaaa…` after an addition,
producing a longer string if needed, but still with three consecutive
`a`'s. In both cases, `b` could be replaced by `B` or `0` if
characters of another class are required. This could lead to a complicated
solution for passwords with a large minimum length. Nevertheless, as
the required length is small, 6, it turns
out that the only problematic case would be that of a string made up
of exactly 3 equal
characters, for which addition is better than substitution. For
example, `aaa` can be converted to `aaAa` and then to `aaAa0` and to
`aaAa0a`, whixh is better than converting `aaa` to `aAa`, `aAa0`,
`aAa0a` and `aAa0aa`. As I don't have to actually convert the
password, just to count the required number of steps, this leads to a
code that fits into a two liner.

Examples:

    perl -MList::Util=max -E '
    for(@ARGV){$s=/^(.)\1\1$/;$c=(!/[a-z]/)+(!/[A-Z]/)+(!/[0-9]/);my $t;++$t while/(.)\1\1/g;
    $c=max($c-$t,0);$h=max(6-(length)-$c,0);say "$_ -> ", $s?3:$t+$h+$c;}
    ' a aB2 PaaSW0rd Paaasw0rd aaaaa aaa

Results:

    a -> 5
    aB2 -> 3
    PaaSW0rd -> 0
    Paaasw0rd -> 1
    aaaaa -> 2
    aaa -> 3

The next to last solution differs from that in the statement of the
problem, but I can verify it is correct by constructing the strong
password step by step:

<table border="2" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="6" rules="groups" frame="hsides">


<colgroup>
<col  class="org-right" />

<col  class="org-left" />

<col  class="org-left" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col" class="org-right">step </th>
<th scope="col" class="org-left">password </th>
<th scope="col" class="org-left">action</th>
</tr>
</thead>

<tbody>
<tr>
<td class="org-right">0</td>
<td class="org-left">aaaaa</td>
<td class="org-left">&#xa0;</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="org-right">1</td>
<td class="org-left">aaAaa</td>
<td class="org-left">replace by upper case</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="org-right">2</td>
<td class="org-left">aaAaa0</td>
<td class="org-left">add digit</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Similarly, I construct the solution for the last example:

<table border="2" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="6" rules="groups" frame="hsides">


<colgroup>
<col  class="org-right" />

<col  class="org-left" />

<col  class="org-left" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col" class="org-right">step </th>
<th scope="col" class="org-left">password </th>
<th scope="col" class="org-left">action</th>
</tr>
</thead>

<tbody>
<tr>
<td class="org-right">0</td>
<td class="org-left">aaa</td>
<td class="org-left">&#xa0;</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="org-right">1</td>
<td class="org-left">aaAa</td>
<td class="org-left">add upper case char</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="org-right">2</td>
<td class="org-left">aaAa0</td>
<td class="org-left">add digit</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="org-right">3</td>
<td class="org-left">aaAa0x</td>
<td class="org-left">add any other char</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The full code is:

     1  # Perl weekly challenge 287
     2  # Task 1:  Strong Password
     3  #
     4  # See https://wlmb.github.io/2024/09/16/PWC287/#task-1-strong-password
     5  use v5.36;
     6  use List::Util qw(max);
     7  die <<~"FIN" unless @ARGV;
     8      Usage: $0 P1 P2...
     9      to find the minimum number of steps required to convert
    10      the passwords Pi into strong passwords
    11      FIN
    12  for(@ARGV){
    13      my $single_triad=/^(.)\1\1$/;
    14      my $missing_classes=(!/[a-z]/)+(!/[A-Z]/)+(!/[0-9]/);
    15      my $triads=0;
    16      ++$triads while /(.)\1\1/g;
    17      my $missing_classes=max($missing_classes-$triads, 0);
    18      my $missing_chars=max(6-(length)-$missing_classes, 0);
    19      my $steps=$single_triad?3:$triads+$missing_chars+$missing_classes;
    20      say "$_ -> $steps";
    21  }

Examples:

    ./ch-1.pl a aB2 PaaSW0rd Paaasw0rd aaaaa aaa

Results:

    a -> 5
    aB2 -> 3
    PaaSW0rd -> 0
    Paaasw0rd -> 1
    aaaaa -> 2
    aaa -> 3


# Task 2: Valid Number

    Submitted by: Mohammad Sajid Anwar
    You are given a string, $str.
    
    Write a script to find if it is a valid number.
    
    Conditions for a valid number:
    
    - An integer number followed by an optional exponent.
    - A decimal number followed by an optional exponent.
    - An integer number is defined with an optional sign
      '-' or '+' followed by digits.
    
    Decimal Number:
    
    A decimal number is defined with an optional sign '-'
    or '+' followed by one of the following definitions:
    - Digits followed by a dot '.'.
    - Digits followed by a dot '.' followed by digits.
    - A dot '.' followed by digits.
    
    Exponent:
    
    An exponent is defined with an exponent notation 'e' or 'E'
    followed by an integer number.
    
    Example 1
    Input: $str = "1"
    Output: true
    Example 2
    Input: $str = "a"
    Output: false
    Example 3
    Input: $str = "."
    Output: false
    Example 4
    Input: $str = "1.2e4.2"
    Output: false
    Example 5
    Input: $str = "-1."
    Output: true
    Example 6
    Input: $str = "+1E-8"
    Output: true
    Example 7
    Input: $str = ".44"
    Output: true

I build and use a regular expression to capture the rules above. I
explain the expression in the full code below. The code fits a one-liner.

Examples:

    perl -E '
    say "$_ -> ", 0+/^(\+|-)?(\d+|\d+\.\d*|\d*\.\d+)((e|E)(\+|-)?\d+)?$/?"true":"false" for @ARGV;
    ' 1 a . 1.2e4.2 -1. +1E-8 .44

Results:

    1 -> true
    a -> false
    . -> false
    1.2e4.2 -> false
    -1. -> true
    +1E-8 -> true
    .44 -> true

In the full code I use an extended regular expression to make it more
intelligible.

     1  # Perl weekly challenge 287
     2  # Task 2:  Valid Number
     3  #
     4  # See https://wlmb.github.io/2024/09/16/PWC287/#task-2-valid-number
     5  use v5.36;
     6  die <<~"FIN" unless @ARGV;
     7      Usage: $0 S1 S2...
     8      to find which strings Si represent valid numbers.
     9      FIN
    10  my $re = qr/      # regular expression
    11     ^                # start of string
    12     (\+|-)?          # optional sign
    13     (\d+             # integer
    14      | \d+\.\d*      # or integer part and optional decimal part
    15      | \d*\.\d+      # or optional integer part and decimal part
    16     )
    17     (                # exponent
    18      (e|E)           #   letter e or E
    19      (\+|-)?         #   optional sign
    20      \d+             #   integer exponent
    21     )?               # is optional
    22     $                # end of string
    23     /x;            # extended syntax
    24  say "$_ -> ", /$re/?"true":"false" for (@ARGV);

Examples:

    ./ch-2.pl 0 1 a . 1.2e4.2 -1. +1E-8 .44

Results:

    0 -> true
    1 -> true
    a -> false
    . -> false
    1.2e4.2 -> false
    -1. -> true
    +1E-8 -> true
    .44 -> true

/;

