---
layout: post
title: Perl Weekly Challenge 377.
comments: true
excerpt:  Reverse Existence and  Prefix Suffix
tags:
   - pwc
   - perl
---

My solutions
([task 1](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-377/wlmb/perl/ch-1.pl)
and
[task 2](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-377/wlmb/perl/ch-2.pl)
)
to the  [The Weekly Challenge - 377](https://theweeklychallenge.org/blog/perl-weekly-challenge-377).


# Task 1: Reverse Existence

    Submitted by: Mohammad Sajid Anwar
    You are given a string.
    
    Write a script to find whether any substring of length 2 is
    also present in the reverse of the given string.
    
    Example 1
    Input: $str = "abcba"
    Output: true
    
    Reverse of given string is "abcba".
    The substring "ab" in original string is also present in the reverse string too.
    ￼
    Example 2
    Input: $str = "racecar"
    Output: true
    
    The substring "ce" is present in both.
    ￼
    Example 3
    Input: $str = "abcd"
    Output: false
    ￼
    Example 4
    Input: $str = "banana"
    Output: true
    
    The substring "an" is present in both.
    ￼
    Example 5
    Input: $str = "hello"
    Output: true
    
    The substring "ll" is present in both.
    ￼

I use a regular expression to extract all two character
subsequences, I reverse them and I test the original string
against all. Any match yields a `true" result. If all
attempts fail, I get a =False` result. The code fits a
1.5-liner.

Examples:

    perl -E '
    L:for(@ARGV){$s=$_;$s=~/$_/&&(say("$s -> T"),next L)for(map{"".reverse $_}
    $s=~/(?=(..))/g);say "$s -> F";}
    ' abcba racecar abcd banana hello

Results:

    abcba -> T
    racecar -> T
    abcd -> F
    banana -> T
    hello -> T

The full code is

     1  # Perl weekly challenge 377
     2  # Task 1:  Reverse Existence
     3  #
     4  # See https://wlmb.github.io/2026/06/08/PWC377/#task-1-reverse-existence
     5  use v5.36;
     6  die <<~"FIN" unless @ARGV;
     7      Usage: $0 S0 S1...
     8      to test if the reversed string Sn when reversed
     9      contains a two character substring of the original string.
    10      FIN
    11  STRING: for my $string (@ARGV){
    12      for(map{"".reverse $_}      # reverse each substring
    13          $string=~/(?=(..))/g    # get all 2 char substrings
    14          ){
    15          say("$string -> True"), next STRING
    16              if $string=~/$_/;
    17      }
    18      say "$string -> False";
    19  }

Example:

    ./ch-1.pl abcba racecar abcd banana hello

Results:

    abcba -> True
    racecar -> True
    abcd -> False
    banana -> True
    hello -> True


# Task 2: Prefix Suffix

    Submitted by: Mohammad Sajid Anwar
    You are given an array of strings.
    
    Write a script to find if the two strings (str1, str2) in
    the given array such that str1 is prefix and suffix of
    str2. Return the total count of such pairs.
    
    Example 1
    Input: @array = ("a", "aba", "ababa", "aa")
    Output: 4
    
    $array[0], $array[1]: "a" is a prefix and suffix of "aba"
    $array[0], $array[2]: "a" is a prefix and suffix of "ababa"
    $array[0], $array[3]: "a" is a prefix and suffix of "aa"
    $array[1], $array[2]: "aba" is a prefix and suffix of "ababa"
    ￼
    Example 2
    Input: @array = ("pa", "papa", "ma", "mama")
    Output: 2
    
    $array[0], $array[1]: "pa" is a prefix and suffix of "papa"
    $array[2], $array[3]: "ma" is a prefix and suffix of "mama"
    ￼
    Example 3
    Input: @array = ("abao", "ab")
    Output: 0
    ￼
    Example 4
    Input: @array = ("abab", "abab")
    Output: 1
    
    $array[0], $array[1]: "abab" is a prefix and suffix of "abab"
    ￼
    Example 5
    Input: @array = ("ab", "abab", "ababab")
    Output: 3
    
    $array[0], $array[1]: "ab" is a prefix and suffix of "abab"
    $array[0], $array[2]: "ab" is a prefix and suffix of "ababab"
    $array[1], $array[2]: "abab" is a prefix and suffix of "ababab"
    ￼
    Example 6
    Input: @array = ("abc", "def", "ghij")
    Output: 0
    ￼

I can check if a string matches at the beginning and at the
end of each of the strings and increment a counter each
succesful match. As each string matches itself, I subtract
the number of strings. I assume the arrays are input as
space separated strings. The result fits a one-liner:

Examples:

    perl -E '
    for(@ARGV){my@s=split" ";my $c=0;for my $x(@s){/^$x/&&/$x$/&&++$c for@s};say"$_ -> ",$c - @s;}
    '  "a aba ababa aa" "pa papa ma mama" "abao ab" "abab abab" \
       "ab abab ababab" "abc def ghij"

Results:

    a aba ababa aa -> 4
    pa papa ma mama -> 2
    abao ab -> 0
    abab abab -> 2 *
    ab abab ababab -> 3
    abc def ghij -> 0

There is certain ambiguity in the problem statement: Every
string is a prefix and suffix of itself, but the examples
show that doesn't count. However, if we are given two equal
strings `$s1==$s2` then `$s1` is a prefix and suffix of
`$s2` **and** `$s2` is a prefix and suffix of `$s1`. So I
expect a contribution of 2 to the count. But then, in
example 3 the expected output is 1. This is confusing, as it
could happen that **three** strings are equal,
`$s1==$s2==$s3`. What would the expected solution be in this
case? Even if example 3 is correct, the result is
ambiguous. There are six ordered pairs of equal strings, 3
unordered pairs, so a result of 1 or 3 would be consistent
with example 3. According to my approach,
the result would be 6 and unambiguous. Thus, I keep that approach.

The full code is:

     1  # Perl weekly challenge 377
     2  # Task 2:  Prefix Suffix
     3  #
     4  # See https://wlmb.github.io/2026/06/08/PWC377/#task-2-prefix-suffix
     5  use v5.36;
     6  die <<~"FIN" unless @ARGV;
     7      Usage: $0 A0 A1...
     8      to find in how many pairs of space-separated substrings of the string An
     9      are the first is both prefix and suffix of the second.
    10      FIN
    11  
    12  for(@ARGV){
    13      my @strings = split" ";
    14      my $count = 0;
    15      for my $str1(@strings){
    16          /^$str1/ && /$str1$/ && ++$count for @strings
    17      };
    18      say"$_ -> ", $count - @strings;
    19  }

Example:

    ./ch-2.pl   "a aba ababa aa" "pa papa ma mama" "abao ab" \
                "abab abab" "ab abab ababab" "abc def ghij"

Results:

    a aba ababa aa -> 4
    pa papa ma mama -> 2
    abao ab -> 0
    abab abab -> 2 *
    ab abab ababab -> 3
    abc def ghij -> 0

/;

