---
layout: post
title: Perl Weekly Challenge 369.
comments: true
excerpt:  Valid Tag and  Group Division
tags:
   - pwc
   - perl
---

My solutions
([task 1](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-369/wlmb/perl/ch-1.pl)
and
[task 2](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-369/wlmb/perl/ch-2.pl)
)
to the  [The Weekly Challenge - 369](https://theweeklychallenge.org/blog/perl-weekly-challenge-369).


# Task 1: Valid Tag

    Submitted by: Mohammad Sajid Anwar
    You are given a given a string caption for a video.
    
    Write a script to generate tag for the given string caption
    in three steps as mentioned below:
    
    1. Format as camelCase
       Starting with a lower-case letter and capitalising the first
       letter of each subsequent word.  Merge all words in the
       caption into a single string starting with a #.
    
    2. Sanitise the String
       Strip out all characters that are not English letters
       (a-z or A-Z).
    3. Enforce Length
       If the resulting string exceeds 100 characters, truncate
       it so it is exactly 100 characters long.
    ￼
    Example 1
    Input: $caption = "Cooking with 5 ingredients!"
    Output: "#cookingWithIngredients"
    ￼
    Example 2
    Input: $caption = "the-last-of-the-mohicans"
    Output: "#thelastofthemohicans"
    ￼
    Example 3
    Input: $caption = "  extra spaces here"
    Output: "#extraSpacesHere"
    ￼
    Example 4
    Input: $caption = "iPhone 15 Pro Max Review"
    Output: "#iphoneProMaxReview"
    ￼
    Example 5
    Input: $caption = "Ultimate 24-Hour Challenge: Living in a
                       Smart Home controlled entirely by
                       Artificial Intelligence and Voice
                       Commands in the year 2026!"
    Output: "#ultimateHourChallengeLivingInASmartHomeControlledEntirelyByArtificialIntelligenceAndVoiceCommandsIn"
    ￼

I assume the words are space separated. I first throw away
leading space. Then I separate the words, capitalize the
first letter of each word but the first, which is lowercased, join them, remove
non-English letters, append a hash and truncate. The result
fits a  1.5-liner.

Examples:

    perl -E '
    for(@ARGV){$i=$_; s/^\s*//;($f,@r)=split" ";$r=join"",lc($f),map{ucfirst}@r;$r=~tr/a-zA-Z//cd;
    $r=substr "#$r", 0, 100;say"$i -> $r"}
    ' "Cooking with 5 ingredients!" "the-last-of-the-mohicans" \
      "  extra spaces here" "iPhone 15 Pro Max Review" \
      "Ultimate 24-Hour Challenge: Living in a Smart Home \
       controlled entirely by Artificial Intelligence and \
       Voice Commands in the year 2026!"

Results:

    Cooking with 5 ingredients! -> #cookingWithIngredients
    the-last-of-the-mohicans -> #thelastofthemohicans
      extra spaces here -> #extraSpacesHere
    iPhone 15 Pro Max Review -> #iphoneProMaxReview
    Ultimate 24-Hour Challenge: Living in a Smart Home \
     controlled entirely by Artificial Intelligence and \
     Voice Commands in the year 2026! -> \
     #ultimateHourChallengeLivingInASmartHomeControlledEntirelyByArtificialIntelligenceAndVoiceCommandsIn

The full code is

     1  # Perl weekly challenge 369
     2  # Task 1:  Valid Tag
     3  #
     4  # See https://wlmb.github.io/2026/04/13/PWC369/#task-1-valid-tag
     5  use v5.36;
     6  die <<~"FIN" unless @ARGV;
     7      Usage: $0 S0 S1...
     8      to make a tag our of the strings Sn
     9      FIN
    10  for(@ARGV){
    11      my $input = $_;
    12      s/^\s*//; # Remove leading spaces
    13      my ($first, @rest) = split " ";
    14      my $joined = join " ",
    15          lc($first),
    16          map {ucfirst} @rest;
    17      $joined =~ tr/a-zA-Z//cd; # remove non-English letters
    18      my $result= substr
    19          "#$joined",  # append hash
    20          0, 100; # and truncate
    21      say "$input -> $result";
    22  }

Example:

    ./ch-1.pl "Cooking with 5 ingredients!" "the-last-of-the-mohicans" \
              "  extra spaces here" "iPhone 15 Pro Max Review" \
              "Ultimate 24-Hour Challenge: Living in a Smart Home \
               controlled entirely by Artificial Intelligence and \
               Voice Commands in the year 2026!"

Results:

    Cooking with 5 ingredients! -> #cookingWithIngredients
    the-last-of-the-mohicans -> #thelastofthemohicans
      extra spaces here -> #extraSpacesHere
    iPhone 15 Pro Max Review -> #iphoneProMaxReview
    Ultimate 24-Hour Challenge: Living in a Smart Home \
    controlled entirely by Artificial Intelligence and \
    Voice Commands in the year 2026! ->
    #ultimateHourChallengeLivingInASmartHomeControlledEntirelyByArtificialIntelligenceAndVoiceCommandsIn


# Task 2: Group Division

    Submitted by: Mohammad Sajid Anwar
    You are given a string, group size and filler character.
    
    Write a script to divide the string into groups of given
    size. In the last group if the string doesn’t have enough
    characters remaining fill with the given filler character.
    
    Example 1
    Input: $str = "RakuPerl", $size = 4, $filler = "*"
    Output: ("Raku", "Perl")
    ￼
    Example 2
    Input: $str = "Python", $size = 5, $filler = "0"
    Output: ("Pytho", "n0000")
    ￼
    Example 3
    Input: $str = "12345", $size = 3, $filler = "x"
    Output: ("123", "45x")
    ￼
    Example 4
    Input: $str = "HelloWorld", $size = 3, $filler = "_"
    Output: ("Hel", "loW", "orl", "d__")
    ￼
    Example 5
    Input: $str = "AI", $size = 5, $filler = "!"
    Output: "AI!!!"

I use a regular expression to produce a list of all
fragments of the desired size, probably followed by an incomplete fragment. I
complete the last element with the filler and print the
results. The result fits a one-liner.

Examples:

    perl -E '
    for my($w,$s,$f)(@ARGV){@r=$w=~/(.{$s}|.+)/g;$r[-1].="$f"x($s-length$r[-1]);say"$w, $s, $f -> @r"}
    ' RakuPerl 4  \* Python 5 0 12345 3 x HelloWorld 3 _ AI 5 !

Results:

    RakuPerl, 4, * -> Raku Perl
    Python, 5, 0 -> Pytho n0000
    12345, 3, x -> 123 45x
    HelloWorld, 3, _ -> Hel loW orl d__
    AI, 5, ! -> AI!!!

The full code is:

     1  # Perl weekly challenge 369
     2  # Task 2:  Group Division
     3  #
     4  # See https://wlmb.github.io/2026/04/13/PWC369/#task-2-group-division
     5  use v5.36;
     6  use feature qw(try);
     7  die <<~"FIN" unless @ARGV and @ARGV%3==0;
     8      Usage: $0 S0 L0 F0 S1 L1 F1...
     9      to divide the string Ln into pieces of length Ln
    10      filling the last one with the filler Fn.
    11      FIN
    12  for my($string, $size, $filler)(@ARGV){
    13      warn("Filler must be one character wide: $filler"), next
    14          unless length $filler==1;
    15      my @result = $string =~ /(.{$size}|.+)/g;
    16      $result[-1] .= "$filler" x ($size - length $result[-1]);
    17      say "string=$string, size=$size, filler=$filler -> ",
    18          join ", ", map {"\"$_\""} @result;
    19  }

Example:

    ./ch-2.pl RakuPerl 4  \* Python 5 0 12345 3 x HelloWorld 3 _ AI 5 !

Results:

    string=RakuPerl, size=4, filler=* -> "Raku", "Perl"
    string=Python, size=5, filler=0 -> "Pytho", "n0000"
    string=12345, size=3, filler=x -> "123", "45x"
    string=HelloWorld, size=3, filler=_ -> "Hel", "loW", "orl", "d__"
    string=AI, size=5, filler=! -> "AI!!!"

/;

