---
layout: post
title: Perl Weekly Challenge 376.
comments: true
excerpt:  Chessboard Squares and  Doubled Words
tags:
   - pwc
   - perl
---

My solutions
([task 1](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-376/wlmb/perl/ch-1.pl)
and
[task 2](https://github.com/wlmb/perlweeklychallenge-club/blob/master/challenge-376/wlmb/perl/ch-2.pl)
)
to the  [The Weekly Challenge - 376](https://theweeklychallenge.org/blog/perl-weekly-challenge-376).


# Task 1: Chessboard Squares

    Submitted by: Mohammad Sajid Anwar
    You are given two coordinates of a square on 8x8 chessboard.
    
    Write a script to find the given two coordinates have the
    same colour.
    
    8 W B W B W B W B
    7 B W B W B W B W
    6 W B W B W B W B
    5 B W B W B W B W
    4 W B W B W B W B
    3 B W B W B W B W
    2 W B W B W B W B
    1 B W B W B W B W
      a b c d e f g h
    
    Example 1
    Input: $c1 = "a7", $c2 = "f4"
    Output: true
    
    Example 2
    Input: $c1 = "c1", $c2 = "e8"
    Output: false
    
    Example 3
    Input: $c1 = "b5", $c2 = "h2"
    Output: false
    
    Example 4
    Input: $c1 = "f3", $c2 = "h1"
    Output: true
    
    Example 5
    Input: $c1 = "a1", $c2 = "g8"
    Output: false

Two coordinates have the same colour if the
number of horizontal and vertical steps to get from one of their
corresponding positions to the other is an even number. For example, one can reach from `a7` to
`f4` by taking `ord(f)-ord(a)=5` horizontal steps and `7-4=3` vertical steps,
and `5+3=8` is an even number. Thus, from the coordinates I have to
get the horizontal components and subtract them, get the vertical
components and subtract them, and finally, add both results and check
their divisibility by 2. The results takes a 1.5-liner.

Examples:

    perl -E '
    for my($p,$q)(@ARGV){@c=map{split""}($q,$p);@c[0,2]=map{ord}@c[0,2];say "$p $q -> ",
    ($c[0]-$c[2]+$c[1]-$c[3])%2?"F":"T"}
    ' a7 f4 c1 e8 b5 h2 f3 h1 a1 g8

Results:

    a7 f4 -> T
    c1 e8 -> F
    b5 h2 -> F
    f3 h1 -> T
    a1 g8 -> F

The full code is:

     1  # Perl weekly challenge 376
     2  # Task 1:  Chessboard Squares
     3  #
     4  # See https://wlmb.github.io/2026/06/01/PWC376/#task-1-chessboard-squares
     5  use v5.36;
     6  use feature qw(try);
     7  die <<~"FIN" unless @ARGV and @ARGV%2==0;
     8      Usage: $0 P0 Q0 P1 Q1...
     9      to find if positions Pn Qn on a chess board have
    10      the same color.
    11      FIN
    12  for my($p,$q)(@ARGV){
    13      try {
    14          do {die "Invalid position: $_" unless /^[a-h][1-8]/} for $p, $q;
    15          my ($horizontalP, $verticalP, $horizontalQ, $verticalQ)
    16              = map {split ""} ($p, $q);
    17          ($horizontalP, $horizontalQ) = map {ord} ($horizontalP, $horizontalQ);
    18          my $steps = $horizontalP-$horizontalQ+$verticalP-$verticalQ;
    19          say "$p $q -> ", $steps%2?"False":"True";
    20      }
    21      catch($e){warn $e}
    22  }

Example:

    ./ch-1.pl a7 f4 c1 e8 b5 h2 f3 h1 a1 g8

Results:

    a7 f4 -> True
    c1 e8 -> False
    b5 h2 -> False
    f3 h1 -> True
    a1 g8 -> False


# Task 2: Doubled Words

    Submitted by: Matt Martini
    You are given a string (which may contain embedded newlines)
    which is taken from a page on a website. The string will not
    contain brackets qw{ [ ] }.
    
    Write a script that will find doubled words (such as “this
    this”) and highlight (wrap in brackets) each doubled word.
    
    The script should:
    
    - Work across lines, even finding situations where a word at
      the end of one line is repeated at the beginning of the
      next.
    
    - Find doubled words despite capitalization differences,
      such as with 'The the...', as well as allow differing
      amounts of whitespace (spaces, tabs, newlines, and the
      like) to lie between the words.
    
    - Find doubled words even when separated by HTML tags. For
      example, to make a word bold: '...it is <B>very</B> very
      important...'. Only show lines containing doubled words.
    
    Adapted from Mastering Regular Expressions, Third Edition by Jeffrey E. F. Friedl
    
    Example 1
    Input: $str = "you're given the job of checking the pages on a\nweb server for doubled words (such as 'this this'), a common problem\nwith documents subject to heavy editing."
    Output: "web server for doubled words (such as '[this] [this]'), a common problem"
    
    Example 2
    Input: $str = "Find doubled words despite capitalization differences, such as with 'The\nthe...', as well as allow differing amounts of whitespace (spaces,\ntabs, newlines, and the like) to lie between the words."
    Output: "Find doubled words despite capitalization differences, such as with '[The]\n[the]...', as well as allow differing amounts of whitespace (spaces,"
    
    Example 3
    Input: $str = "to make a word bold: '...it is <B>very</B> very important...'."
    Output: "to make a word bold: '...it is <B>[very]</B> [very] important...'."
    
    Example 4
    Input: $str = "Perl officially stands for Practical Extraction and Report Language, except when it doesn't."
    Output: ""
    
    Example 5
    Input: $str = "There's more than one one way to do it.\nEasy things should be easy and hard things should be possible."
    Output: "There's more than [one] [one] way to do it."

I `split` the input using a capturing pattern, so I produce
an array with words and their separators: html tags, special
characters, spaces or punctuation. I can highlight
adjacent repeated words (from the examples, I guess repeated
words that are not adjacent are not to be highlighted) and
join the array to build the output. Finally, I print the
lines that contain highlighted words.

     1  # Perl weekly challenge 376
     2  # Task 2:  Doubled Words
     3  #
     4  # See https://wlmb.github.io/2026/06/01/PWC376/#task-2-doubled-words
     5  use v5.36;
     6  die <<~"FIN" unless @ARGV;
     7      Usage: $0 S0 S1...
     8      to find, highlight and print doubled words in the string Sn
     9      FIN
    10  for(@ARGV){
    11      my @parts=split /   # split on word separators
    12         (                # capture
    13          \s*             # leading spaces
    14          (               # group
    15            <\/?\w[^>]*?> # html tag
    16            |
    17            &.+?;         # html special character
    18            |
    19            \s            # space
    20            |
    21            [[:punct:]]   # punctuation
    22          )+              # arbitrarily repeated
    23          \s*             # trailing space
    24         )
    25         /xx;             # extended re syntax
    26      # As there are two capture groups, @parts contains word, sep, sep, word, sep, sep...
    27      for(grep{$_%3==0} 0..@parts-4){                      # for the actual words
    28          next unless (lc $parts[$_] eq lc $parts[$_+3]);  # check doubled words
    29          $parts[$_]="[$parts[$_]]";                       # and higlight them
    30          $parts[$_+3]="[$parts[$_+3]]";
    31      }
    32  
    33      my @lines =
    34          grep {/\[/}
    35          split "\n",
    36          join "", @parts[
    37              grep{$_%3!=2}0..@parts-1
    38          ],
    39          "\n";
    40      say "$_\n->";
    41      say $_ for @lines;
    42      say "---";
    43  }

Example:

    ./ch-2.pl \
    "you're given the job of checking the pages on a
    web server for doubled words (such as 'this this'), a common problem
    with documents subject to heavy editing." \
    "Find doubled words despite capitalization differences, such as with 'The
    the...', as well as allow differing amounts of whitespace (spaces,
    tabs, newlines, and the like) to lie between the words." \
    "to make a word bold: '...it is <B>very</B> very important...'." \
    "Perl officially stands for Practical Extraction and Report Language, except when it doesn't." \
    "There's more than one one way to do it.
    Easy things should be easy and hard things should be possible."

Results:

    you're given the job of checking the pages on a
    web server for doubled words (such as 'this this'), a common problem
    with documents subject to heavy editing.
    ->
    web server for doubled words (such as '[this] [this]'), a common problem
    ---
    Find doubled words despite capitalization differences, such as with 'The
    the...', as well as allow differing amounts of whitespace (spaces,
    tabs, newlines, and the like) to lie between the words.
    ->
    Find doubled words despite capitalization differences, such as with '[The]
    [the]...', as well as allow differing amounts of whitespace (spaces,
    ---
    to make a word bold: '...it is <B>very</B> very important...'.
    ->
    to make a word bold: '...it is <B>[very]</B> [very] important...'.
    ---
    Perl officially stands for Practical Extraction and Report Language, except when it doesn't.
    ->
    ---
    There's more than one one way to do it.
    Easy things should be easy and hard things should be possible.
    ->
    There's more than [one] [one] way to do it.
    ---

/;

